Welcome back in the previous we returned of hardcoded limits configuration back we hardcoded the values
thousand and one and returned them back.
But what we want to actually do is pick them up from application dot properties so let's start with that
right now.
What I'll do is I'll call this limits hyphen service because this is the configuration for the limits
hyphen service I'll say limits hyphen servie dot minimum is equal to 99.
And I'll also configur the maximum is equal to nine thousand nine hundred ninety nine.
So we're up configuring a couple of values in the application dot properties.
So for the limits Service I'am saying minimum is 99 maximum is 9 9 9 9.
What we want to do is we would want to be able to return these values back as part of this service.
We want to pick the configuration from the application dot properties and return them back.
One of the ways I can do that is by putting an at value annotation and try and read the value from the property
file.
But with spring board there is a better approach to reading the values from configuration.
One of the best things about spring boot is the approach called configuration properties.
Let's use that to read the values from the property file.
So what I'll do is I'll go to the package come in28minutes Micro services limits service and create a
new class.
I call this configuration and say finish the first thing I want to make sure that this is recognize component.
So I'll add at component in.
I Would want to spring to manage this.
Secondly I want to do is I would want this to be a configuration properties file so I will need to add
annotation configuration properties and I would want to add  a prefix the prefix we have been using until
now is limits hyphen service.
So I would want to use that prefix or over here to anything starting from limit starting with limits
hyphen service in the properties configuration I would want to read them how they want to read them in
here.
All that I would need to do is to create variables matching the naming in here.
So I would want to read minimum and maximum.
So I'll say private int minimum private int maximum.
What I'll also do is I'll create the getters for this alt shift s generate getters and setters.
I'll select the getters and create make the changes and save and restart the application.
You would see that application failed to start it says no setters found for property minimum.
So one of the things is if you are using the configuration properties it's not sufficient if you just
create the getters.
You would also need to generate the setters as well.
So let's quickly generate setters as well select setters and do this and save.
Now you would see that the application is starting fine.
We have configured the configuration but we have not really used it in the controller yet.
I want to use the configuration here.
What should I do.
These are component just managed by spring boot.
So let's auto wire it in the autowire the configuration.
And now I can say instead of a thousand configuration dot get maximum and the next one would be
configuration dot get minimum.
That's it.
Let's save the file and you would see that the application would restart and pick it up we are using dev tools.
So what would happen is as soon as I make a code change the application would directly pick up the change
Let's go ahead and refresh the limits and now.
You can see that maximum is 9 9 9 9 and minimum is ninety nine.
Let's see if it's really picking up the values from here.
So I'll change this to 9 9 9 9 and save and refresh ok.
You're getting maximum 9 9 9 and minimum night nine in this step.
We quickly created an application configuration file so we used configuration properties to create a configuration
and pick up the values from the application dot properties and assign them in here.
And then this configuration can be auto wired in wherever I need to read the configuration values so
we have auto wireed in here and red.
The maximum and the minimum values and returned it as part our service.
So we were able to invoke the service and retrieve the values back.
With this step our limits service is ready it's ready to pick up the values from the application configuration.
However what we want to do with the limits service is Connect it to a spring cloud config server from the next step on we will
start setting up our sping cloud config server until then.
Bye bye.